Many years ago, a brother of my congregation asked me to go with him and field service and return on a man who had asked him to come back.
Well, it wasn't too long after we were there in his house that it became clear to us that he wasn't so much interested in listening to us as he was to convince us that Jehovah's Witnesses was the wrong religion.
And he went on to attack Brother Russell, Charles Tase Russell, started your organization and he made accusations about Brother Russell did this and that and etc.
And his reasoning was that since Brother Russell was flawed in these ways that God could not have used him to start the right religion.
Well, we took the opportunity to point out his wrong reasoning and basically he was saying that God cannot use imperfect men to do his will.
Well, think if we applied that to the Bible. Moses failed to credit Jehovah God for the miracle with the water.
What are we going to do? Take out the first five books of the Bible. David sinned with Bathsheba. We're going to take out most of the Psalms.
Peter denied Christ. Well, there goes first and second Peter. See that that reasoning really doesn't make sense.
Jehovah God does use imperfect people to do his will.
But putting aside his flawed reasoning for a moment, maybe you've heard others say that Jehovah's Witnesses are breakaway Christian sect or that we're a new American religion.
Is that really true? Did Brother Russell start a new religion? No, absolutely not.
What he did do is rediscover the true religion of the Bible, the way it was practiced by Jesus and the apostles.
What Russell and the early Bible students did was exactly what Jehovah told the nation of Israel to do when they had lost their way spiritually.
I'd like you to look at Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse 16 and notice the advice that Jehovah gave them.
Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse 16. This is what Jehovah says. Stand at the crossroads and see.
Ask about the ancient roadways. Ask where the good way is and walk in it and find rest for yourselves.
Now, if you look at the research guide on this verse, one of the first watchtower references says,
Jehovah exhorts his rebellious people to pause, examine themselves, and find their way back to the roadways of their faithful ancestors.
Well, that's exactly what those early Bible students did. They asked about the ancient roadways that Jesus walked.
Now, can you imagine an explorer trying to locate in a jungle, an ancient path that was there?
Now, in a jungle, the path could have been covered over by years of growth and it would be difficult.
But maybe he saw a stone or two and eventually by cutting away the jungle around it, imagine his excitement at finding that ancient path.
Well, when you get a chance to read some of the early writings about the Russell and the early Bible students,
you get a real sense of discovery that they are excited to have found the truce that they're there in the Bible all along.
It just been covered over with hundreds, thousands of years of lies and twisted doctrines taught by false Christianity.
Yes, Jehovah's Witnesses are not a breakaway religion. We practice Christianity by following closely the model set out in the Bible by Jesus and the Apostles.
We could really say that the early Bible students, led by Holy Spirit, found the ancient path of true Christianity and they cleared away thousands of years of pagan philosophies and man-made doctrines.
Right away, the early Bible students eliminated a lot of jungle growth from the path, no immortal soul. We are a soul, no hellfire. When we die, we cease to exist and depend on a resurrection.
The ransom, Jesus' death saved all of mankind that would put faith in them. God's kingdom is a heavenly government that will rule over the earth and established in 1914.
It's amazing how well they cleared the path. Now, of course, there was still much work to do, but the path was much clearer.
In fact, so clear and profound were those truths, and so clear was the path that if you read the life experiences and life stories of those that came to the truth in the 1920s and 1930s,
they'll often say that they read one book or one brochure and say, I have found the truth.
And of course, this was not just clearing away doctrine, also how the organization operated, appointments of elders, not elections, not paid.
Circuit overseers that visit the congregations like Paul and Timothy did, weekly congregation meetings, to make sure that we could study and read about Jehovah and discuss Bible truths,
or focus on the preaching work like the apostles did, door to door, and public witnessing.
Our text for today, Acts chapter 16 and verse 4, is one example of how closely Jehovah's organization today follows the first century pattern.
Let's read Acts chapter 16 for its entirety. Acts chapter 16 verse 4, as they traveled on through the cities, they would deliver to them for observance the decrees that had been decided on by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem.
So led by Jesus Christ, who was it that sent out these decrees? It was the apostles and elders in Jerusalem.
Yes, Jehovah's Witnesses today, we don't have a single leader or one man that is leading the organization.
We're organized today as it was in the first century, a governing body, a group of men, Jehovah uses to lead his organization today.
And all the congregations around the world are united by the direction that we get from the governing body.
And just as the apostles and elders in Jerusalem would send out decrees for all the early Christian congregations of the time, the same exact model is used today.
Now today, decisions from the governing body take many forms. It could be articles in the watch tower, letters to bodies of elders and the congregations, governing body updates, organizational direction provided at schools and many other forms.
But all around the world, no matter where Jehovah's Witnesses live, they accept the direction from one governing body.
There's not the Latin Jehovah's Witnesses or the American Jehovah's Witnesses or the European Jehovah's Witnesses, we're all united worldwide.
And Jehovah's Witnesses in one country don't say, well, you know, I don't think that direction from the governing applies to us here.
No? All of us understand that worldwide, Jehovah and Jesus are using the governing body as the channel for spiritual food and organizational direction.
Now, some feel that because our world headquarters is in the United States, the Jehovah's Witnesses are an American religion.
But that reasoning is like some who say that, well, the Bible is only for the Jews because it was written by Jewish men.
But clearly, the Bible's message is for all mankind. And the fact that Jehovah chose Jewish men to write it down for us doesn't limit its message to just Jews.
Likewise, the fact that Jehovah chose the United States as the location for world headquarters doesn't mean that Jehovah's Witnesses are an American religion.
There's no limit to anyone no matter what country or language from becoming one of Jehovah's Witnesses and worshipping Jehovah.
And the very fact that Jehovah's Spirit has moved the governing body to work so hard to make sure that the truth is available to all nations
is further proof in my mind that we have found the path of Christianity that Jesus and the Apostles practiced.
So in review, first, Jehovah's Witnesses are not a new religion started by Brother Russell.
But rather, Brother Russell and the early Bible students found the ancient path of Christianity that Jesus and the Apostles walked on.
And secondly, Jehovah's Witnesses are not an American religion. The governing body has made every effort to reach all mankind with the truth.
We truly are the only united worldwide followers of Christ on the planet today.